---
date: 2004-11-16 18:54:00+00:00
slug: stick-it-to-the-man-dammit
title: Stick it to the man dammit!!!
---

> You can't fight city hall. Death and taxes. Don't talk about politics or religion. This is all the equivalent of enemy propaganda rolling across the picket line. Lay down GI, lay down GI. We saw it all through the 20th century. And now in the 21st century, it's time to stand up and realize that we should not allow ourselves to be crammed into this rat maze. We should not submit to dehumanization. I don't know about you, but I'm concerned about what's happening in this world. I'm concerned with the structure. I'm concerned with the systems of control, those that control my life and those that seek to control it even more. I want freedom. That's what I want. And that's what you should want. It's up to each and every one of us to turn loose and show them the greed, the hatred, the envy, and yes, the insecurities, because that's the central mode of control. Make us feel pathetic, small, so we'll willingly give up our sovereignty, our liberty, our destiny. We have got to realize that we're being conditioned on a mass scale. Start challenging this corporate slave state. The 21st century is going to be a new century. Not the century of slavery, not the century of lies and issues of no significance, of classism, of sadism, and all the rest of the modes of control. It's going to be the age of human kind standing up for something pure and something right. What a bunch of garbage: liberal, democrats, conservative, republican, it's all there to control us, it's two sides of the same coin. Two management teams bidding for control, the CEO job of Slavery, Incorporated! The truth is out there in front of you, but they lay out this buffet of lies. I'm sick of it! And I'm not going to take a bite of it. Do you got me? Our existence is not futile. We're going to win this thing. Humankind is too, good. We're not a bunch of underachievers. We're going to stand up, and we're going to be human beings. We're going to get fired up about the real things, the things that matter, creativity and the dynamic human spirit that refuses to submit. Well that's it. That's all I got to say.

(Excerpt from _Waking Life_, Guy with a bullhorn driving through the city streets yelling) 

What are some other real things we should get fired up about? How about love, friendship and altruism...accountability, sustained development and ecologically friendly industry. COOL! I love that movie. What did I do today? Time to hold myself accountable. I woke up mid morning, read my book, rode my bike to the job centre in the pouring rain and sent out some resumes as well as explore future career options. Then I did some tutoring, I'm trying to help a kid pass his Grade 12 provincial English exam. It won't be easy. Now I'm about to enjoy a Sushi dinner deftly made by Sarah, so I must flee...I had planned to stay and chat, but not this time I'm afraid...
